Buddhism has evolved into one of the
world's major religions with many
schools and branches but if we go back
to the source Gautama Buddha who was
born as a prince that later became
enlightened and known as the Buddha we
find a collection of teachings named the
Dhammapada the Dhammapada contains some
profound wisdom for those who seek a
tranquil mind
so after stoicism and Taoism a video
about Buddhist wisdom for inner peace
certainly cannot be missed
[Music]
one attachment leads to suffering this
is one of the basic teachings in
Buddhism we suffer because we attach
ourselves to external things which in
essence are beyond our control
by doing this we actually resist the
fundamental truth about existence change
is the only constant our youth and looks
fade with time the people we love will
disappear our success
well on YouTube for example will end one
day
the key is to have a deep appreciation
for what's happening in the moment while
acknowledging its impermanence and
willingness to let it go I quote the
Buddha the good renounce attachment for
everything the virtuous do not prattle
with a yearning for pleasures the wise
show no elation or depression when
touched by happiness or sorrow to
desiring the right things another basic
Buddhist teaching is that deep desire
also known as craving and lust poisons
the mind and makes us restless and even
sick however this doesn't mean that we
should aim to destroy desire completely
even Buddhist monks desire which is a
deep desire for enlightenment and you
might be interested in Buddhism because
you desire relief from pain so there's
nothing wrong with desire in itself the
key is to desire the right of things and
to arm ourselves against the wrong
things that lead us astray in Buddhism
this means training the mind I quote the
Buddha just as rain breaks through an
ill touched house so passion penetrates
an undeveloped mind just as rain does
not break through a well touched house
so passion never penetrates a
well-developed mind three pursuing
sensual pleasures leads to suffering
what we shouldn't crave for according to
Buddhism our sensual pleasures sensual
pleasures aren't wrong in itself but
once indulgence in them can become a
source of evil things like greed
gluttony and addiction stem from
cravings to fulfill sensual pleasures
when the pursuit of sensual pleasures
controls our lives we will become easily
seduced by
a demon called Mara who leads us into
committing evil and basically keeps us
in misery because of the fear
dissatisfaction and cravings generated
by chasing sensuality it's not uncommon
that we degrade exploit attack and even
kill not only other human beings animals
and our environment but ourselves as
well I quote just as a storm throws down
a weak tree
so does Mara overpower the man who lives
for the pursuit of pleasures with
uncontrolled in his senses a moderate in
eating indolent and dissipated for from
misery gross beauty suffering is an
inherent part of life
even though Buddhism is directed towards
ending that suffering discarding the
darker sides of life completely is like
throwing away the baby with the
bathwater it was deep suffering that led
the Buddha to the path of enlightenment
and it's often our sufferings that we
can use as fertilizer for a better life
in my own experience the insights we get
because of our pain is an opportunity to
be more compassionate and also more
creative for example I wouldn't be able
to make these videos if I didn't
experience it deep suffering in the past
I quote upon a heap of rubbish in the
roadside ditch blooms a lotus fragrant
and pleasing five good company is
important comparable to the Stoics the
Buddha advises us to hang out with wise
and positive people preferably people
that also follow the path to
enlightenment for those that are serious
about Buddhism this means seeking the
company of a Buddhist community or even
becoming a monk or nun now the last
isn't for everyone of course the Buddha
goes as far as saying that we are better
off in solitude than to be in a company
of foolish people or those that have a
bad influence on us and I personally
think that's sound advice I quote better
it is to live alone
there's no fellowship with a fool live
alone and do no evil be carefree like an
elephant in the elephant forest 6 a
trained mind leads to happiness the
cornerstone of Buddhism is the practice
of meditation
the goal of meditation is achieving
freedom from the mind that has generally
grown out of control we are not our
thoughts
however we tend to identify ourselves
with our thoughts no matter how
destructive they have become when we can
find relief of overthinking and be
absent of any form of intellectual
activity we become present in a moment
unburdened and unencumbered by cravings
and by the past or future this is where
happiness lies I quote he who delights
in subduing evil thoughts who meditates
on the impurities and is ever mindful it
is he who will make an end of craving
and rent asunder maras fetter
7 short-term evil has long-term
consequences many things we do
don't bring about pain instantly
indulging the senses for example may
give us short-term pleasure without the
immediate punishment of pain also lies
deceit manipulation and even theft can
lead to immediate pleasure or avoidance
of pain but in the long run the
consequences of evil will catch up to us
we may have become addicted so our lives
are dictated by uncontrolled cravings or
because of our lies and deceit we have
become untrustworthy not only for the
environment but also for ourselves the
Buddhists believe in karma which is the
spiritual principle of cause and effect
and also in reincarnation so if we don't
face the consequences of our evil deeds
in this life it will happen in one of
the next lives which might manifest
itself as a bad rebirth I quote it may
be well with the evildoer as long as the
evil ripens not but when it does ripen
and the evildoer sees the painful
results of his evil deeds and quote all
in all according to Buddhism you reap
what you sow so to wrap it up let's
summarize the Buddhist wisdom for inner
peace as explained in this video
attachment leads to suffering desiring
the right things
pursuing sensual pleasures leads to
suffering from misery gross beauty good
company is important a trained mind
leads to happiness and short-term evil
has long-term
please mind that the presented quotes
come directly from the Dhammapada and
are backed up by my own interpretations
and what I've learned by studying
Buddhism there are many Buddhist
scriptures to study
besides the Dhammapada if you're
interested that's it if you know more
Buddhist wisdom that you want to share
please put it in a comment section thank
you for watching
[Music]
[Applause]
you